# aita
Congressional App Challenge: AITA - AI For All: Fair, Fun, Personalized

Aita is an online educational app to bridge the gap in AI knowledge and ethics, and create a more equitable AI landscape, especially for under-served and special-needs communities. It does so in a unique way: “using AI to teach AI,” personalizing education for diverse backgrounds, at scales of tens of thousands of students.

The app starts with an introductory questionnaire to learn about the student. Based on this input, the  app then redirects the student to a customized course, specifically individualized to their level of knowledge, learning style, and personal interests. For example, a beginner student with very little background on AI is presented with a foundational AI literacy course that discusses the basics of AI, and its applications and limitations; the information is presented in a fun colorful interface, with lots of embedded videos and games and quizzes.  On the other hand, a more advanced student, with interest in coding, is presented with a more structured course format with advanced subject modules, including coding exercises using Google colab. For students interested in “doing-and-learning,” the app features an example application of AI for medical image analysis; this can also serve as a capstone project to open up other opportunities like research or internships.  

All the content is carefully curated and covers important AI concepts. Some of the basic concepts include: what makes machines intelligent; what are different types of AI; what are different applications of AI; and ethics in AI. More advanced modules include discussions of various kinds of machine learning (supervised, unsupervised, reinforcement), as well as deeper discussion of approaches such as classification, regression, K-nearest-neighbor, neural networks, and transfer learning, including coding exercises to illustrate and test concepts. The medical analytics capstone project uses ML to analyze x-ray images to detect the occurrence of disease and is based on real-world clinical data. Throughout the course, the content emphasizes the responsible use of AI, including discussions and exercises to highlight how to address bias in the datasets and models. 

Additionally, at any point, students can invoke an AI study buddy: eMiLy. Emily can answer questions about the subject, explain concepts using metaphors based on the student’s interests, create and take practice tests together, and overall, help make studying fun and effective. For kids with special needs or disabilities, Emily can be further customized specific to their needs.
